docs/resources/network_interface_link.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_network_interface_link Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage network configuration on a network interface.
---

# maas_network_interface_link (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage network configuration on a network interface.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_network_interface_link" "virsh_vm1_nic1" {
  machine           = maas_machine.virsh_vm1.id
  network_interface = maas_network_interface_physical.virsh_vm1_nic1.id
  subnet            = data.maas_subnet.pxe.id
  mode              = "STATIC"
  ip_address        = "10.99.4.111"
  default_gateway   = true
}

resource "maas_network_interface_link" "virsh_vm1_nic2" {
  machine           = maas_machine.virsh_vm1.id
  network_interface = maas_network_interface_physical.virsh_vm1_nic2.id
  subnet            = data.maas_subnet.vid10.id
  mode              = "AUTO"
}

resource "maas_network_interface_link" "virsh_vm1_nic3" {
  machine           = maas_machine.virsh_vm1.id
  network_interface = maas_network_interface_physical.virsh_vm1_nic3.id
  subnet            = data.maas_subnet.pxe.id
  mode              = "DHCP"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `machine` (String) The identifier (system ID, hostname, or FQDN) of the machine with the network interface.
- `network_interface` (String) The identifier (MAC address, name, or ID) of the network interface.
- `subnet` (String) The identifier (CIDR or ID) of the subnet to be connected.

### Optional

- `default_gateway` (Boolean) Boolean value. When enabled, it sets the subnet gateway IP address as the default gateway for the machine the interface belongs to. This option can only be used with the `AUTO` and `STATIC` modes. Defaults to `false`.
- `ip_address` (String) Valid IP address (from the given subnet) to be configured on the network interface. Only used when `mode` is set to `STATIC`.
- `mode` (String) Connection mode to subnet. It defaults to `AUTO`. Valid options are:
	* `AUTO` - Random static IP address from the subnet.
	* `DHCP` - IP address from the DHCP on the given subnet.
	* `STATIC` - Use `ip_address` as static IP address.
	* `LINK_UP` - Bring the interface up only on the given subnet. No IP address will be assigned.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

Commit message:

feat: interfaces device support (#284)
Co-authored-by: Bertrand Lanson <bertrand.lanson@protonmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Bertrand Lanson <89710239+ednxzu@users.noreply.github.com>

- The resource `maas_network_interface_link` now works with machines and devices, using the new `device` key. 
- Devices cannot use the resource `maas_network_interface_physical`, as network interfaces should be configured on the device resource itself. This aligns with real world scenarios, that network interfaces are part of the physical deployment profile of the device. 
- Device `Update` now updates network interfaces if their mac addresses change, as this is the only non-computed property.

docs/resources/network_interface_link.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_network_interface_link Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage network configuration on a network interface.
---

# maas_network_interface_link (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage network configuration on a network interface.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_network_interface_link" "virsh_vm1_nic1" {
  machine           = maas_machine.virsh_vm1.id
  network_interface = maas_network_interface_physical.virsh_vm1_nic1.id
  subnet            = data.maas_subnet.pxe.id
  mode              = "STATIC"
  ip_address        = "10.99.4.111"
  default_gateway   = true
}

resource "maas_network_interface_link" "virsh_vm1_nic2" {
  machine           = maas_machine.virsh_vm1.id
  network_interface = maas_network_interface_physical.virsh_vm1_nic2.id
  subnet            = data.maas_subnet.vid10.id
  mode              = "AUTO"
}

resource "maas_network_interface_link" "virsh_vm1_nic3" {
  machine           = maas_machine.virsh_vm1.id
  network_interface = maas_network_interface_physical.virsh_vm1_nic3.id
  subnet            = data.maas_subnet.pxe.id
  mode              = "DHCP"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `network_interface` (String) The identifier (MAC address, name, or ID) of the network interface.
- `subnet` (String) The identifier (CIDR or ID) of the subnet to be connected.

### Optional

- `default_gateway` (Boolean) Boolean value. When enabled, it sets the subnet gateway IP address as the default gateway for the machine the interface belongs to. This option can only be used with the `AUTO` and `STATIC` modes. Defaults to `false`.
- `device` (String) The identifier (system ID, hostname, or FQDN) of the device with the network interface. Either `machine` or `device` must be provided.
- `ip_address` (String) Valid IP address (from the given subnet) to be configured on the network interface. Only used when `mode` is set to `STATIC`.
- `machine` (String) The identifier (system ID, hostname, or FQDN) of the machine with the network interface. Either `machine` or `device` must be provided.
- `mode` (String) Connection mode to subnet. It defaults to `AUTO`. Valid options are:
	* `AUTO` - Random static IP address from the subnet.
	* `DHCP` - IP address from the DHCP on the given subnet.
	* `STATIC` - Use `ip_address` as static IP address.
	* `LINK_UP` - Bring the interface up only on the given subnet. No IP address will be assigned.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
