docs/resources/vm_host.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_vm_host Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage MAAS VM hosts.
---

# maas_vm_host (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage MAAS VM hosts.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_vm_host" "kvm" {
  type          = "virsh"
  power_address = "qemu+ssh://ubuntu@10.113.1.24/system"
  tags = [
    "pod-console-logging",
    "virtual",
    "kvm",
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) The VM host type. Supported values are: `lxd`, `virsh`.

### Optional

- `cpu_over_commit_ratio` (Number) The new VM host CPU overcommit ratio. This is computed if it's not set.
- `default_macvlan_mode` (String) The new VM host default macvlan mode. Supported values are: `bridge`, `passthru`, `private`, `vepa`. This is computed if it's not set.
- `machine` (String) The identifier (hostname, FQDN or system ID) of a registered ready MAAS machine. This is going to be deployed and registered as a new VM host. This argument conflicts with: `power_address`, `power_user`, `power_pass`.
- `memory_over_commit_ratio` (Number) The new VM host RAM memory overcommit ratio. This is computed if it's not set.
- `name` (String) The new VM host name. This is computed if it's not set.
- `pool` (String) The new VM host pool name. This is computed if it's not set.
- `power_address` (String) Address that gives MAAS access to the VM host power control. For example: `qemu+ssh://172.16.99.2/system`. The address given here must reachable by the MAAS server. It can't be set if `machine` argument is used.
- `power_pass` (String, Sensitive) User password to use for power control of the VM host. Cannot be set if `machine` parameter is used.
- `power_user` (String) User name to use for power control of the VM host. Cannot be set if `machine` parameter is used.
- `tags` (Set of String) A set of tag names to assign to the new VM host. This is computed if it's not set.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `zone` (String) The new VM host zone name. This is computed if it's not set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `resources_cores_total` (Number) The VM host total number of CPU cores.
- `resources_local_storage_total` (Number) The VM host total local storage (in bytes).
- `resources_memory_total` (Number) The VM host total RAM memory (in MB).

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# VM hosts can be imported using the ID or the name. e.g.
$ terraform import maas_vm_host.kvm vm-host-01
```

Commit message:

feat(vm_host): add deploy params to maas_vm_host resource (#275)
Co-authored-by: Stamatis Katsaounis <katsaouniss@gmail.com>

docs/resources/vm_host.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_vm_host Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage MAAS VM hosts.
---

# maas_vm_host (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage MAAS VM hosts.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_vm_host" "kvm" {
  type          = "virsh"
  power_address = "qemu+ssh://ubuntu@10.113.1.24/system"
  tags = [
    "pod-console-logging",
    "virtual",
    "kvm",
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) The VM host type. Supported values are: `lxd`, `virsh`.

### Optional

- `cpu_over_commit_ratio` (Number) The new VM host CPU overcommit ratio. This is computed if it's not set.
- `default_macvlan_mode` (String) The new VM host default macvlan mode. Supported values are: `bridge`, `passthru`, `private`, `vepa`. This is computed if it's not set.
- `deploy_params` (Block List, Max: 1) Nested argument with the config used to deploy the machine specified using `machine`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--deploy_params))
- `machine` (String) The identifier (hostname, FQDN or system ID) of a registered ready MAAS machine. This is going to be deployed and registered as a new VM host. This argument conflicts with: `power_address`, `power_user`, `power_pass`.
- `memory_over_commit_ratio` (Number) The new VM host RAM memory overcommit ratio. This is computed if it's not set.
- `name` (String) The new VM host name. This is computed if it's not set.
- `pool` (String) The new VM host pool name. This is computed if it's not set.
- `power_address` (String) Address that gives MAAS access to the VM host power control. For example: `qemu+ssh://172.16.99.2/system`. The address given here must reachable by the MAAS server. It can't be set if `machine` argument is used.
- `power_pass` (String, Sensitive) User password to use for power control of the VM host. Cannot be set if `machine` parameter is used.
- `power_user` (String) User name to use for power control of the VM host. Cannot be set if `machine` parameter is used.
- `tags` (Set of String) A set of tag names to assign to the new VM host. This is computed if it's not set.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `zone` (String) The new VM host zone name. This is computed if it's not set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `resources_cores_total` (Number) The VM host total number of CPU cores.
- `resources_local_storage_total` (Number) The VM host total local storage (in bytes).
- `resources_memory_total` (Number) The VM host total RAM memory (in MB).

<a id="nestedblock--deploy_params"></a>
### Nested Schema for `deploy_params`

Optional:

- `distro_series` (String) The distro series used to deploy the specifed MAAS machine. If it's not given, the MAAS server default value is used.
- `enable_hw_sync` (Boolean) Periodically sync hardware
- `hwe_kernel` (String) Hardware enablement kernel to use with the image. Only used when deploying Ubuntu.
- `user_data` (String) Cloud-init user data script that gets run on the machine once it has deployed. A good practice is to set this with `file("/tmp/user-data.txt")`, where `/tmp/user-data.txt` is a cloud-init script.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# VM hosts can be imported using the ID or the name. e.g.
$ terraform import maas_vm_host.kvm vm-host-01
```
